Jhipster k8s azure (#1151)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-04-21-jhipster-k8s-azure.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "JHipster Microservice Deployed to Azure with Cosmos DB"
author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [devops,security,java,javascript]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: awareness|conversion
---

> #### JHipster Azure AKS Microservice

Reviewer: Note to self: Fold this into the title. We shouldn't have two headings in a row.

> In this tutorial, you're going to deploy a JHipster-based, reactive microservice to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). You'll use Azure's Cosmos DB as a persistent store for one of the services. For security, you'll use Okta as an OAuth and OIDC provider. You'll also securely encrypt all secrets in the project configuration files using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`. This tutorial focuses on deploying an already generated project to Azure AKS. It does not go into great detail about generating the project. To see how the project was generated using JHipster, take a look at [this previous tutorial](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to deploy a JHipster-based, reactive microservice to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). You'll use Azure's Cosmos DB as a persistent store for one of the services. For security, you'll use Okta as an OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider. You'll also securely encrypt all secrets in the project configuration files using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`. This tutorial focuses on deploying an already generated project to Azure AKS. It does not go into great detail about generating the project. To see how the project was generated using JHipster, take a look at [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices). 
```

The project has a few different pieces:

> - JHipster registry: a Eureka server for service discovery and a Spring Cloud Config server for centralized configuration management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JHipster Registry: a Eureka server for service discovery and a Spring Cloud Config server for centralized configuration management
```
Since you capitalized it in the diagram.

- Gateway: public gateway application built with Vue
- Store: simple demo store API using Azure's Cosmo DB API for MongoDB

> - Blog: simple demo blog API using a Neo4J database

Reviewer: I think it might be better to say "simple store app" instead of demo. Also, maybe "simple" isn't a great word? minimal might be better. We can wait for @havi to weigh in on this.

> {% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/microservice-structure.png alt:"Microservice structure" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: Love this!

This tutorial has a lot of different technologies in it. I've tried to make it as simple and as explicit as possible, but it's probably helpful to have some basic knowledge of Docker and Kubernetes before you start.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include toc.md %}

```

If you're already familiar with all the tech in this tutorial, you can skip ahead to the prerequisites section. If not, I'm going to explain them a little before we move on.

> [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech/) is a development platform that streamlines the generation, development, and deployment of both monolithic and microservice applications. It supports a dizzying array of frontend (Angular, React, and Vue) and backend (Spring Boot, Micronaut, Quarkus, Node.js, and .NET) technologies. It's designed to be deployed using Docker and Kubernetes, and can easily deploy to all the major cloud platforms, such as AWS, Azure, Heroku, Cloud Foundry, Google Cloud Platform, and OpenShift. 

Reviewer: Since the backend technologies mentioned include blueprints, we could really dizzy up the frontend and add Ionic, React Native, and Svelte!

Reviewer: Since Pivotal shutdown run.pivotal.io, I'm not sure we should mention Cloud Foundry. I'm not sure there's anyone else that allows it for public use. https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/pivotal-web-services-blog/pivotal-web-services-end-of-availability-announcement-and-timeline

The project in this tutorial uses Spring Boot with Java resource servers and a Vue frontend. It was built with the JHipster generator that quickly scaffolds a new application based on either an interactive shell or a DSL file. You can read more about generating microservices with JHipster [in their docs](https://www.jhipster.tech/creating-microservices/). One of the slick features of the JHipster generator is that you can generate data entities along with applications.

> The [JHipster registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) that is generated with the microservice includes two important functions: a Eureka server and a Spring Cloud Config server. The Eureka server is what allows the microservices to dynamically find each other without having to use hard-coded URIs. This means that the microservice can scale and services can be replaced without causing problems. It's a bit like a phonebook or a DNS service for the microservice. The [Spring Cloud Config](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-config/reference/html/) server allows project configuration to be centralized and distributed to all of the different services. You'll use this feature in this tutorial to configure all of the services for Okta OAuth in one place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [JHipster Registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) that is generated with the microservice includes two important functions: a Eureka server and a Spring Cloud Config server. The Eureka server is what allows the microservices to dynamically find each other without having to use hard-coded URIs. This means that the microservice can scale and services can be replaced without causing problems. It's a bit like a phonebook or a DNS service for the microservice. The [Spring Cloud Config](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-config/reference/html/) server allows project configuration to be centralized and distributed to all of the different services. You'll use this feature in this tutorial to configure all of the services for Okta OAuth in one place.
```

> The [JHipster API Gateway](https://www.jhipster.tech/api-gateway/) is the public face of your microservice. All public traffic comes through this service, which also includes the Vue frontend. The gateway is one of three application types that can be created by the JHipster generator DSL. The other two are monolith and microservice. A monolith is a non-microservice application with a single service.

Reviewer: A monolith can have multiple services, so I'm not sure single service is accurate.

The store service and blog service are both examples of the microservice application type. This means that they are a Spring Boot resources server with some type of SQL or NoSQL backend.

> The generator creates four applications. They are designed to be built and run as docker containers, which makes it easy for them to be packaged in [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/) pods. Kubernetes is a container orchestrator specifically designed for managing microservice networks. It's something like Docker Compose but designed for microservices with a lot of great features like service discovery, load balancing, automatic rollouts and restarts, resource management, and storage mounting.

Reviewer: The generator creates four applications. > Not if you're just cloning a repo. 
docker > Docker
automatic rollouts and restarts > automatic rollouts/restarts

> #### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites:**
```

So it doesn't show up as a header.

This tutorial has a lot of pieces. Install the required software below and sign up for an Azure Cloud account. You'll need a free Okta account, but you can use the Okta CLI to sign up for it later in the tutorial.

> - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/): you'll need to have both **Docker Engine** and **Docker Compose** installed (If you install the docker desktop, this will automatically install both. On Linux, if you install Docker Engine individually, you will have to also [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/): you'll need to have both **Docker Engine** and **Docker Compose** installed (If you install the Docker desktop, this will automatically install both. On Linux, if you install Docker Engine individually, you will have to also [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) separately.
```

- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/): you'll need this to host the docker images so that Azure can pull them
- [Java 11](https://adoptopenjdk.net/)+

> - [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation): you'll use Okta to add security to the microservice network. You can register for a free account from the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation): you'll use Okta to add security to your microservice architecture
```

Reviewer: Mostly because it's nice to not have periods for any list items. An alternative is to give all items periods.

> - [Azure Cloud account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/): they offer an account with a $200 credit to start out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Azure Cloud account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/): they offer an account with a $200 credit to start
```

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/): CLI to manage Kubernetes clusters

#### Modifying the Generated JHipster Microservice Project for Azure and Cosmos DB

This project is based on two of Matt Raible's tutorials: *[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)* and *[Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)*. In these tutorials, he builds a reactive Java microservice and shows how to deploy it to Google Cloud (GCP). I have modified the project to work with Azure and Cosmos DB.

You will first run the project using Docker Compose. Once you have this working, you will run the project as a Kubernetes cluster on Azure. The modifications were relatively minor and involved removing the unnecessary MongoDB instances (from both the `docker-compose.yml` file and from the Kubernetes descriptors) as well as updating environment values to point the `store` service to the Cosmos DB instance instead of a MongoDB instance.

> Listed briefly, the changes I made from Matt Raible's posts to make this work with Azure and Cosmos DB are as follows. You can skip this list and go right to cloning the Git repository if you want, but since this documents how to update a JHipster-generated project to use Cosmos DB, I thought it was worth putting in here.

Reviewer: ❤️

In the `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml`  file:

- removed the MongoDB service
- updating the `store` service property `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` to point to the Cosmos DB instance via a `.env` file

> - removed the Keycloak service and the environment variables that configured auth to use keycloak from the remaining services (not strictly necessary but cleaned things up)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- removed the Keycloak service and the environment variables that configured auth to use Keycloak from the remaining services (not strictly necessary but cleaned things up)
```

In the `k8s/store-k8s` directory:

- removed the `store-mongodb.yml` file (this creates the MongoDB Kubernetes service that this project does not need)
- in `store-deployment.yml`

>   - removed the `initContainers`  (the init container waits for the MongoDB instance, which is removed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - removed the `initContainers` (the init container waits for the MongoDB instance, which is removed)
```

  - updated `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` env value of the `store-app` container to the Cosmos DB URI (points the store to the Cosmos DB instance)

>   - properly secure the Cosmos DB connection string using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - properly secured the Cosmos DB connection string using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`
```
Because the rest of the items use past tense.

> #### Clone the Modified Project from GitHub

Reviewer: We only use title case for headers now, so this should be "Clone the modified project from GitHub"

Clone the modified JHipster reactive microservice project from GitHub and checkout the `start` tag.

```bash
git clone git@github.com:moksamedia/okta-azure-kubernetes-cosmodb.git
cd okta-azure-kubernetes-cosmodb
git fetch --all --tags
git checkout tags/start -b working
```

#### Create the Azure Cosmos DB Mongo Database

> You need to create an Azure Cosmos DB instance. You can either use the [Azure Portal](portal.azure.com) or the CLI to create a new Cosmos DB instance. Make sure you create a one that is **Azure Cosmos DB API for MongoDB** (Cosmos DB supports various database types). If you use the portal, it's pretty self-explanatory but don't forget to enable the free tier and enable a public network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to create an Azure Cosmos DB instance. You can either use the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com) or the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/) to create a new Cosmos DB instance. Make sure you create a one that is **Azure Cosmos DB API for MongoDB** (Cosmos DB supports various database types). If you use the portal, it's pretty self-explanatory but don't forget to enable the free tier and a public network.
```

Reviewer: Maybe we should provide instructions for the Azure CLI?

```
brew install azure-cli
```

Here are the instructions for using the CLI. This assumes you have already logged into the Azure CLI (if not, do so first using `az login` from a Bash shell).

> Open a Bash shell. Create a resource group with the following command.

Reviewer: Is it Bash or bash? I've always seen the latter.

```bash

> az group create --name australia-east --location australiaeast

Reviewer: Is there a reason for this? I like it! Just curious because people might ask.

Reviewer: Nevermind, you answered this below.

```

Create the Cosmos DB account in the resource group. Substitute your Azure subscription name in the command below (it's probably `Azure subscription 1`, which is what mine defaulted to).

```bash

> az cosmosdb create --name jhipster-cosmosdb --resource-group australia-east --kind MongoDB --subscription <you-subscription-name> --enable-free-tier true --enable-public-network true

Reviewer: Might want to add a line break so the users don't have to scroll.

List the connection string for the Cosmos DB API for MongoDB endpoint using the following command.

```bash
az cosmosdb keys list --type connection-strings --name jhipster-cosmosdb --resource-group australia-east
```

This will list four connection strings. You need to save (copy and paste somewhere) the first, the primary connection string. (Ellipses have been used for brevity below)

```bash
  "connectionStrings": [
    {
      "connectionString": "mongodb://jhipster-cosmosdb:XBq5KZ81V8hM63KjCOezi1arq...,
      "description": "Primary MongoDB Connection String"
    },
    ...
  ]

> }

Reviewer: Curly braces don't match up. Should there be something like this at the beginning of this code block?

```
{
  ...
```

```

Create a `.env` file in the `docker-compose` subdirectory. Add the following variables to it, substituting your connection string for the placeholder. Make sure the connection string is enclosed in quotes. This value is referenced by the `docker-compose.yml` file and passed to the `store` service, pointing it to the Cosmos DB MongoDB database.

> The `ENCRYPT_KEY` will be used as the key for encrypting sensitive values stored in the Spring Cloud Config and used by the JHipster registry. You can put whatever value you want in there. A UUID works well, but any string value will work. The longer, the better.

Reviewer: Capitalize Registry. I'll stop requesting since find/replace is easy.

`docker-compose/.env`

```.env
SPRING_DATA_MONGO_URI="<your-connection-string>"
ENCRYPT_KEY=<your-encryption-key
```

#### Configure Okta OAuth

> Use the Okta CLI to create an OIDC (OpenID Connect) application. This is what you need on the Okta side to use Okta as an authentication provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Okta CLI to create an OIDC (OpenID Connect) application. You will need this to use Okta as an authentication provider.
```

If you already have an Okta account, use `okta login` to log into that account with the CLI. Otherwise, use `okta register` to sign up for a free account. 

Create the OIDC app using the following command using a Bash shell opened to the project root.

```bash
okta apps create jhipster
```

> You can accept the default values by pressing **enter**. If you want to give the app a different, more descriptive, name, that is fine. Just take note of the name because you will need to find the app in the Okta developer dashboard and update the redirect URIs a little later.

Reviewer: Please try to use the [CLI include](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog#use-the-okta-cli-to-register-your-app) so we can change things in one place if we need to.

```
{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}
```

`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>
```

#### Build the Docker Images and Run the App with Docker Compose

You're all set to run the app locally using Docker and Docker Compose. You need to build the docker image for each of the projects: `gateway`, `store`, and `blog`.

 In the three different app directories, run the following Gradle command.

```
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jibDockerBuild
```

Navigate to the `docker-compose` directory and run the app. You can use the `-d` param to run it as a daemon but for the moment I like seeing the logs. You're just running this in Docker Compose as a warm-up for the Azure deployment anyway.

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Give that a minute or two to finish running all the services. 

> Open the gateway service: http://localhost:8080/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the gateway app at `http://localhost:8080`.
```

Go to **Account** and **Sign in**. You should be directed to the Okta sign-in form. 

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/signing-in.png alt:"Okta Login" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

You should be able to authenticate with your Okta credentials.

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/authenticated.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Make sure all parts of the application are working. First, test the store (which is using the Cosmos DB Mongo database) by going to **Entities** and **Product**. Make sure you can add a new product and see it in the list of products. Next, create a blog (**Entities** and **Blog**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure all parts of the application are working. First, test the store (which is using the Cosmos DB Mongo database) by going to **Entities** > **Product**. Make sure you can add a new product and see it in the list of products. Next, create a blog (**Entities** > **Blog**).
```

Reviewer: The first time I tried to go to product and add an item, it fails:

```
xhr.js:177          POST http://localhost:8080/services/store/api/products 404 (Not Found)
(anonymous) @ xhr.js:177
(anonymous) @ xhr.js:13
(anonymous) @ dispatchRequest.js:52
Promise.then (async)
(anonymous) @ Axios.js:61
(anonymous) @ Axios.js:87
(anonymous) @ bind.js:9
(anonymous) @ product.service.ts:51
(anonymous) @ product.service.ts:50
(anonymous) @ product-update.component.ts:71
submit @ product-update.vue?917d:14
oe @ vue.esm.js:1863
n @ vue.esm.js:2188
(anonymous) @ vue.esm.js:7565
createError.js:16 Uncaught (in promise) Error: Request failed with status code 404
    at createError.js:16:15
    at settle.js:17:12
    at XMLHttpRequest.<anonymous> (xhr.js:62:7)
```

If I look at http://localhost:8761/, the store has a status of "OUT_OF_SERVICE". It looks like it's up in Docker Desktop, so I'm not sure what the problem is.

Reviewer: I stopped and restarted `docker-compose up` and now it works. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

If that works, you can take a look at the **Administration** menu. There's a lot of helpful info there. 

> You can also check the JHipster Registry: http://localhost:8761/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check the JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761`.
```

> {% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/registry.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/registry.png alt:"JHipster Registry" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
```

Reviewer: This screenshot is a little hard to read. I just tried taking my own and resizing to 1600w. It doesn't look much better, so maybe it's good enough? 

<img width="800" alt="jhipster-registry" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/165599117-43b61fbf-db61-4157-a3e5-e7a39bab1b6c.png">

#### Encrypt the Client Secret

Leaving secrets in plain text in repositories is a security risk. There are two values in this app that are sensitive: the Cosmos DB connection string that includes the username and password and the Okta OIDC app client secret. You were able to avoid exposing the database credentials by using a `.env` file. However, the Okta client secret is exposed as plain text in the Spring Cloud Config file (`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`). This can be encrypted using the JHipster registry.

> Open the registry (http://localhost:8761/) and click on **Configuration** and **Encryption**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the registry (`http://localhost:8761`) and click on **Configuration** > **Encryption**.
```

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/encryption.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Paste your client secret in the text box. Click **Encrypt**.

This, incidentally, is why you needed the `ENCRYPT_KEY` property in the `.env` file.  That's the key that JHipster registry uses to encrypt these values (so keep it secret!).

You can now copy the encrypted value and paste it back into the `application.yml` file. Make sure you include the `{cipher}` part. It should look similar to below. Don't forget the quotes!

`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

```yml
...
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
                  client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: 0oa6ycm987987uy98
            client-secret: "{cipher}88acb434dd088acb434dd088acb434dd0..."
```

Stop the app if you have not already using `control-c`. Restart it.

```bash
docker-compose up
```

> Make sure you can still sign into the gateway: http://localhost:8080/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you can still sign into the gateway: `http://localhost:8080/`
```

You're down with the Docker Compose implementation. To clean up, you can run the following command. This will stop and remove the containers, networks, volumes, and images created by `docker-compose up`.

```bash
docker-compose down --remove-orphans
```

#### Create the Azure Kubernetes Cluster

The app works locally. Now it's time to deploy it to an Azure Kubernetes Cluster (AKS). The first step is to create an AKS cluster.

It's super easy to use the CLI to create a cluster. I'll show you the command below. However, there's a wrinkle. The free tier cannot create a cluster in many of the regions because of resource quotas. At least, this was the case when I was working on this tutorial. Nor is there an easy way to quickly see what regions will allow you to create a free-tier cluster. This is why I used Australia East as the region--it allowed me to create a free cluster. 

> If the command below does not work, I suggest going to the Auzure portal and create a Kubernetes cluster there. Select **Create a service** and **Kubernetes Service**. You'll have to select different regions and see what sizes are available (under **Node size** and **Change size**) until you find a region that will allow you to create something in the free tier. But hopefully the command will work and you won't have to worry about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the command below does not work, I suggest going to the Auzure portal and create a Kubernetes cluster there. Select **Create a service** > **Kubernetes Service**. You'll have to select different regions and see what sizes are available (under **Node size** and **Change size**) until you find a region that will allow you to create something in the free tier. But hopefully the command will work and you won't have to worry about it.
```

The size I'm using for this tutorial is `Standard B4ms` with two nodes. I found that I needed two nodes for the cluster to start properly.

Run the following command to create the AKS cluster.

> `az aks create --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo --node-count 2 --enable-addons monitoring --generate-ssh-keys --node-vm-size standard_b4ms`

Reviewer: Change to use a text block (three back ticks) and add a line break so scrolling isn't needed.

Reviewer: This took quite some time for me: `Execution time: 8 min. 12 s`

This will probably take a few minutes.

As a side note, at any point, you can stop the cluster. This will pause billing on the cluster.

```bash
az aks stop --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo 
```

And you can start it again.

```bash
az aks start --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo 
```

You can also stop and start the cluster from the Azure portal as well. 

> The next step is to get the credentials for the cluster and merge them into `.kube/confg` so that `kubectl` can use them. Use the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to get the credentials for the cluster and merge them into `.kube/config` so that `kubectl` can use them. Use the following command:
```

I'm guessing this is a typo since you mention it below.

#### Build Docker Images and Push to Docker Hub

Previously you built the docker images, but you left them in the local repository. You need to upload them to Docker Hub so that Azure AKS can find them. In each of the three directories (`blog`, `store`, and `gateway`), run the following command. Save your docker repo name in a Bash variable as shown below and you can copy and paste the commands and run them in each service directory.

```bash
DOCKER_REPO_NAME=<docker-repo-name>
# in blog
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/blog
# in store
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/store
# in gateway
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/gateway
```

To briefly explain what's happening here, take a look at the blog service Kubernetes descriptor file. It defines a container named `blog-app` that uses the docker image `andrewcarterhughes/blog`, which is my docker repository name and the blog image.

`k8s/blog-k8s/blog-deployment.yml`

```yml
containers:
  - name: blog-app
    image: andrewcarterhughes/blog
```

> Thus in the `k8s` directory, each service (store, blog, gateway, and registry) defines a container and a docker image to be run in that container, along with a whole lot of configuration (which is really a lot of what JHipster is bootstrapping for you). The registry does not have a project folder because it uses a stock image that can be pulled directly from the JHipster docker repository.

Reviewer: Capitalize Docker because it's a proper noun.

You can use port-forwarding to see the JHipster Registry.

```
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8761`. You will be redirected to the Okta login screen, after which you will be taken to the registry.

Make sure everything is green. If you have an error, check the logs for the pod that caused the error. You can restart a specific deployment by deleting it and re-applying it. For example, to restart the store, you can use the commands below from the `k8s` directory. I found that I sometimes had to delete and restart the store to get it to work.

```bash
kubectl delete -f store-k8s/
kubectl apply -f store-k8s/
```

Once all is good, `control-c` to stop forwarding the registry. Expose the gateway and open it. 

```
kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

Go to `http://localhost:8080`. 

Authenticate with Okta. Make sure you can add blogs, posts, tags, and products. Because the store service uses the same Cosmos DB instance that you were using with Docker Compose locally, any test products you created earlier will still be there.

> 

Reviewer: What about exposing the gateway on a public IP, updating Okta to use the IP, and enabling HTTPS? At the very least, we should link to Azure docs and mention you'll need to add the new IPs to your Okta OIDC app.

> In preparation for the next step. delete everything you just deployed to AKS in the `demo` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In preparation for the next step, delete everything you just deployed to AKS in the `demo` namespace.
```

```bash
kubectl delete all --all -n demo
```

This is one of the benefits of using a namespace. You can do a delete like this. If you do this from the default namespace, you'll risk deleting things you didn't mean to delete or pods added by Kubernetes and Azure for infrastructure administration.

You can also just delete the entire namespace. It will be recreated if you use the Bash script to apply the deployments. This deletes absolutely everything from the namespace but is a little slower. 

```bash
kubectl delete namespace demo

> ```

Reviewer: I love showing how to destroy everything, especially because you'll lose credits if you don't!

> #### Encrypt the Sensitive Configuration Parameters

Reviewer: Sentence case for headers.

The first above is only for Spring Cloud Config values. The latter two are used to encrypt values in the Kubernetes descriptor files (the other `yml` files in the `k8s` directory).

When you use JHipster registry encryption, you have to define an `ENCRYPT_KEY` value that is used by JHipster to encrypt the secrets. However, because this value is stored in `yml` files that are going to be committed to a repository, this value must be properly encrypted to ensure the security of the Spring Cloud Config values. 

The Cosmos DB connection string (the `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` env var) is a Kubernetes deployment value, same as the `ENCRYPT_KEY`, not a Spring Cloud Config value.

Thus, to harden the OIDC client secret, you must (1) define an `ENCRYPTION_KEY` to enable JHipster registry encryption, (2) use JHipster registry to encrypt the client ID and place the encrypted value in the `application-configmap.yml`, and (3) use Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal` to properly encrypt the `ENCRYPTION_KEY`. 

Securing the Cosmos DB connection string is the same as the `ENCRYPT_KEY`: use Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal` to properly encrypt it.

> Matt Raible did a great job of explaining secrets management in Kubernetes in his post, [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-kubernetes-secrets). He also linked to a lot of great resources. I'm not going to go into much more detail explaining it here. Check the post out for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matt Raible did a great job of explaining secrets management in Kubernetes in his post, [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-kubernetes-secrets). He also linked to a lot of great resources. I'm not going to go into much more detail explaining it here. Check his post out for more info.
```

```yml
env:
...
  - name: ENCRYPT_KEY
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        name: project-secrets
        key: ENCRYPT_KEY
```

In `k8s/store-k8s/store-deployment.yml`, change the `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` env variable to use the sealed secret.

```yaml
env:
...
- name: SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI
  valueFrom:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: project-secrets
      key: SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI
```

Deploy the cluster.

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Give the cluster a bit to start. Check it with one of the tools I mentioned or the following:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n demo
```

Once everything is ready, port forward the registry to check the services.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

Make sure you can log in and that all the services are green. You should either be automatically logged in and redirected back to the home page or directed to log in with the Okta login screen.

This is the happy dance.

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/happy-dance.png alt:"Happy Dance!" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

Forward the gateway and test the app.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

> Log in. Make sure everything works. Kick the tires. Start a blog. Create some products. Influence some people. Restore democracy. Take over the world. Whatever you want.

Reviewer: 😆

Once you're done with everything, you can delete the resource group. This will also delete all of the resources in the resource group, including the Cosmos database and the AKS cluster.

```bash
az aks delete --name jhipster-demo --resource-group australia-east --no-wait --yes
```

> #### Wrapping Up

Reviewer: Don't miss the opportunity for keywords in a header! This should be an h2 (##) as well.

Thanks to [Julien Dubois](https://twitter.com/juliendubois) for help getting this tutorial finished! 

In this project you saw how to deploy a JHipster microservice to Azure AKS. You saw how you can use a managed Cosmos DB instance in place of a MongoDB pod in Kubernetes. You saw how to deploy the app first with Docker Compose and then later with `kubectl` and the Azure CLI. Finally, you properly encrypted all of the sensitive configuration values using a combination of JHipster registry encryption, Kubernetes secrets, and `kubeseal`. 

> As I mentioned at the top, this project is based on two of Matt Raible's tutorials: *[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)* and *[Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As I mentioned at the top, this project is based on two of Matt Raible's tutorials: 

- *[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)* 
- *[Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)*. 
```

Reviewer: Not sure these links need to be bold.

The project has a few different pieces:

- JHipster registry: a Eureka server for service discovery and a Spring Cloud Config server for centralized configuration management
- Gateway: public gateway application built with Vue
- Store: simple demo store API using Azure's Cosmo DB API for MongoDB
- Blog: simple demo blog API using a Neo4J database

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/microservice-structure.png alt:"Microservice structure" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

This tutorial has a lot of different technologies in it. I've tried to make it as simple and as explicit as possible, but it's probably helpful to have some basic knowledge of Docker and Kubernetes before you start.

> {% include toc.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{% include toc.md %}
```

---
#### JHipster Azure AKS Microservice

In this tutorial, you're going to deploy a JHipster-based, reactive microservice to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). You'll use Azure's Cosmos DB as a persistent store for one of the services. For security, you'll use Okta as an OAuth and OIDC provider. You'll also securely encrypt all secrets in the project configuration files using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`. This tutorial focuses on deploying an already generated project to Azure AKS. It does not go into great detail about generating the project. To see how the project was generated using JHipster, take a look at [this previous tutorial](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices). 

The project has a few different pieces:

- JHipster registry: a Eureka server for service discovery and a Spring Cloud Config server for centralized configuration management
- Gateway: public gateway application built with Vue
- Store: simple demo store API using Azure's Cosmo DB API for MongoDB
- Blog: simple demo blog API using a Neo4J database

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/microservice-structure.png alt:"Microservice structure" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> This tutorial has a lot of different technologies in it. I've tried to make it as simple and as explicit as possible, but it's probably helpful to have some basic knowledge of Docker and Kubernetes before you start.

Reviewer: This is the beginning of 8 paragraphs of a wall of text. We should try to break it up with a h2 header.

Author: Sure. We may also not need it. I wasn't sure if this kind of breakdown was really necessary. I didn't write one at first and then added it later.

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/): you'll need to have both **Docker Engine** and **Docker Compose** installed (If you install the docker desktop, this will automatically install both. On Linux, if you install Docker Engine individually, you will have to also [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) separately.
- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/): you'll need this to host the docker images so that Azure can pull them
- [Java 11](https://adoptopenjdk.net/)+
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation): you'll use Okta to add security to the microservice network. You can register for a free account from the CLI.
- [Azure Cloud account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/): they offer an account with a $200 credit to start out. 
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli): you'll use the Azure CLI to manage the Kubernetes cluster
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/): CLI to manage Kubernetes clusters

#### Modifying the Generated JHipster Microservice Project for Azure and Cosmos DB

> This project is based on two of Matt Raible's tutorials: *[Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)* and *[Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)*. In these tutorials, he builds a reactive Java microservice and shows how to deploy it to Google Cloud (GCP). I have modified the project to work with Azure and Cosmos DB.

Reviewer: I'm not sure these blog posts should be italicized, but maybe. I'll leave this here for @havi to decide.

In the `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml`  file:

- removed the MongoDB service
- updating the `store` service property `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` to point to the Cosmos DB instance via a `.env` file
- removed the Keycloak service and the environment variables that configured auth to use keycloak from the remaining services (not strictly necessary but cleaned things up)

In the `k8s/store-k8s` directory:

- removed the `store-mongodb.yml` file (this creates the MongoDB Kubernetes service that this project does not need)
- in `store-deployment.yml`
  - removed the `initContainers`  (the init container waits for the MongoDB instance, which is removed)
  - updated `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` env value of the `store-app` container to the Cosmos DB URI (points the store to the Cosmos DB instance)
  - properly secure the Cosmos DB connection string using Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`

#### Clone the Modified Project from GitHub

Clone the modified JHipster reactive microservice project from GitHub and checkout the `start` tag.

```bash

> git clone git@github.com:moksamedia/okta-azure-kubernetes-cosmodb.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/okta-azure-kubernetes-cosmosdb-example.git azure-k8s-cosmosdb
```

> cd okta-azure-kubernetes-cosmodb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd azure-k8s-cosmosdb
```

git fetch --all --tags
git checkout tags/start -b working
```

> #### Create the Azure Cosmos DB Mongo Database

Reviewer: Is it Azure Cosmos DB or Mongo?

Author: It's awkwardly named bc it's Cosmos DB but Cosmos supports multiple databases, so it's "Cosmos DB API for Mongo DB"

You need to create an Azure Cosmos DB instance. You can either use the [Azure Portal](portal.azure.com) or the CLI to create a new Cosmos DB instance. Make sure you create a one that is **Azure Cosmos DB API for MongoDB** (Cosmos DB supports various database types). If you use the portal, it's pretty self-explanatory but don't forget to enable the free tier and enable a public network.

Here are the instructions for using the CLI. This assumes you have already logged into the Azure CLI (if not, do so first using `az login` from a Bash shell).

Open a Bash shell. Create a resource group with the following command.

```bash

> az group create --name australia-east --location australiaeast

Reviewer: This works just fine:

```
$ az group create --name australia-east --location australiaeast
{
  "id": "/subscriptions/c9dca3c2-a9cf-4a4d-9fd4-c3b53578ce6f/resourceGroups/australia-east",
  "location": "australiaeast",
  "managedBy": null,
  "name": "australia-east",
  "properties": {
    "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups"
}
```

However, the next command does not:

```
az cosmosdb create --name jhipster-cosmosdb --resource-group australia-east \
  --kind MongoDB --subscription "Azure subscription 1" --enable-free-tier true --enable-public-network true

Argument '--enable-free-tier' is in preview and under development. Reference and support levels: https://aka.ms/CLI_refstatus
(ResourceGroupNotFound) Resource group 'australia-east' could not be found.
```

If you get an error that says`(BadRequest) DNS record for cosmosdb under zone Document is already taken.` you need to change the `--name` parameter to something else.

I'm using the Australia East location because that was the location that had free tier AKS nodes available when I wrote this tutorial. You can use any resource group you want as long as it allows you to create the AKS cluster later in the tutorial. Even if you can't use the free tier or the free credits, if you stop and start the AKS cluster between working on the tutorial, the cost should be very small (mine was less than a few dollars). The application should still work if the Cosmos DB database is in a different resource group and region since the database URI is configured to be publicly accessible.

List the connection string for the Cosmos DB API for MongoDB endpoint using the following command.

```bash
az cosmosdb keys list --type connection-strings --name jhipster-cosmosdb --resource-group australia-east
```

This will list four connection strings. You need to save (copy and paste somewhere) the first, the primary connection string. (Ellipses have been used for brevity below)

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
{
```

  "connectionStrings": [
    {
      "connectionString": "mongodb://jhipster-cosmosdb:XBq5KZ81V8hM63KjCOezi1arq...,
      "description": "Primary MongoDB Connection String"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

Create a `.env` file in the `docker-compose` subdirectory. Add the following variables to it, substituting your connection string for the placeholder. Make sure the connection string is enclosed in quotes. This value is referenced by the `docker-compose.yml` file and passed to the `store` service, pointing it to the Cosmos DB MongoDB database.

The `ENCRYPT_KEY` will be used as the key for encrypting sensitive values stored in the Spring Cloud Config and used by the JHipster registry. You can put whatever value you want in there. A UUID works well, but any string value will work. The longer, the better.

`docker-compose/.env`

> ```.env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```env
```
Not sure this will provide syntax highlighting. If it doesn't, we should use bash.

SPRING_DATA_MONGO_URI="<your-connection-string>"

> ENCRYPT_KEY=<your-encryption-key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENCRYPT_KEY=<your-encryption-key>
```

```

#### Configure Okta OAuth

Use the Okta CLI to create an OIDC (OpenID Connect) application. This is what you need on the Okta side to use Okta as an authentication provider.

If you already have an Okta account, use `okta login` to log into that account with the CLI. Otherwise, use `okta register` to sign up for a free account. 

Create the OIDC app using the following command using a Bash shell opened to the project root.

```bash
okta apps create jhipster
```

You can accept the default values by pressing **enter**. If you want to give the app a different, more descriptive, name, that is fine. Just take note of the name because you will need to find the app in the Okta developer dashboard and update the redirect URIs a little later.

This command created a config file named `.okta.env`. It will look something like the following. It helpfully lists the values you will need in the next step.

```bas

> export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI="https://dev-123456/oauth2/default"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI="https://dev-13337.okta.com/oauth2/default"
```

export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID="2989u928u383..."
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET="09328uu098u4..."
```

Both the Docker Compose project and the Kubernetes project use Spring Cloud Config to centralize configuration. The JHipster registry service makes these config values available to all of the other services in the cluster.

Open `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml` and add the following to the end, filling in the `issuer-uri`, `client-id`, and `client-secret` taken from the `.okta.env` file. This is the Spring Cloud Config file for the Docker Compose project.

`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: <client-id>
            client-secret: <client-secret>

> ```

Reviewer: There's a `docker-compose/central-server-config/one-dark.theme.css` file in this directory. Is that a mistake?

Author: Yeah, I'll delete it. Crossing the streams.

#### Build the Docker Images and Run the App with Docker Compose

You're all set to run the app locally using Docker and Docker Compose. You need to build the docker image for each of the projects: `gateway`, `store`, and `blog`.

 In the three different app directories, run the following Gradle command.

```
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jibDockerBuild

> ```

Reviewer: I get this in all three apps:

```
Downloading https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.8.3-bin.zip
......................................................................................................
Starting a Gradle Daemon (subsequent builds will be faster)

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* Where:
Settings file '/Users/mraible/Downloads/azure-k8s-cosmosdb/blog/settings.gradle'

* What went wrong:
Could not compile settings file '/Users/mraible/Downloads/azure-k8s-cosmosdb/blog/settings.gradle'.
> startup failed:
  General error during semantic analysis: Unsupported class file major version 61
  
  java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Unsupported class file major version 61
        at groovyjarjarasm.asm.ClassReader.<init>(ClassReader.java:196)
```

```
$ java --version
openjdk 17.0.3 2022-04-19
OpenJDK Runtime Environment GraalVM CE 22.1.0 (build 17.0.3+7-jvmci-22.1-b06)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM GraalVM CE 22.1.0 (build 17.0.3+7-jvmci-22.1-b06, mixed mode, sharing)
```

If I use Java 11, it works.

Author: Hmm. Do I think this is copied from the k8s directory of the tutorial you did a while back. Do I need to update it? Or should we just specify Java 11?

Reviewer: It looks like Java 11 needs to be used. From `build.gradle` in each app:

```
sourceCompatibility=11
targetCompatibility=11
```

Author: OK. I'll add a note and a link to SDKMAN as a suggested solution for managing java versions.

Navigate to the `docker-compose` directory and run the app. You can use the `-d` param to run it as a daemon but for the moment I like seeing the logs. You're just running this in Docker Compose as a warm-up for the Azure deployment anyway.

> 

Reviewer: We might want to add a note here about Docker resources and that the defaults might not work. Mine are:

- CPUs: 8
- Memory: 25 GB
- Swap: 2 GB
- Disk image size: 120 GB

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Give that a minute or two to finish running all the services. 

Open the gateway service: http://localhost:8080/

Go to **Account** and **Sign in**. You should be directed to the Okta sign-in form. 

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/signing-in.png alt:"Okta Login" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

You should be able to authenticate with your Okta credentials.

> {% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/authenticated.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: We might want to crop this on the right since there's a line on the right but not on the left.

Leaving secrets in plain text in repositories is a security risk. There are two values in this app that are sensitive: the Cosmos DB connection string that includes the username and password and the Okta OIDC app client secret. You were able to avoid exposing the database credentials by using a `.env` file. However, the Okta client secret is exposed as plain text in the Spring Cloud Config file (`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`). This can be encrypted using the JHipster registry.

Open the registry (http://localhost:8761/) and click on **Configuration** and **Encryption**.

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/encryption.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Paste your client secret in the text box. Click **Encrypt**.

This, incidentally, is why you needed the `ENCRYPT_KEY` property in the `.env` file.  That's the key that JHipster registry uses to encrypt these values (so keep it secret!).

You can now copy the encrypted value and paste it back into the `application.yml` file. Make sure you include the `{cipher}` part. It should look similar to below. Don't forget the quotes!

`docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`

> ```yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

...
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:

>                   client:

Reviewer: Indent is off on this line.

        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: 0oa6ycm987987uy98
            client-secret: "{cipher}88acb434dd088acb434dd088acb434dd0..."
```

Stop the app if you have not already using `control-c`. Restart it.

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Make sure you can still sign into the gateway: http://localhost:8080/

You may be wondering (like I did initially), why can't I just put the client secret in the `.env` file? This doesn't work because the `.env` file is processed by Spring Cloud Config and JHipster registry after the container is composed, not Docker Compose during the container creation, which is when the `.env` file is processed.

> You're down with the Docker Compose implementation. To clean up, you can run the following command. This will stop and remove the containers, networks, volumes, and images created by `docker-compose up`.

Reviewer: Should "down" be "done"?

`az aks create --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo --node-count 2 --enable-addons monitoring --generate-ssh-keys --node-vm-size standard_b4ms`

This will probably take a few minutes.

As a side note, at any point, you can stop the cluster. This will pause billing on the cluster.

```bash
az aks stop --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo 
```

And you can start it again.

```bash
az aks start --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo 
```

You can also stop and start the cluster from the Azure portal as well. 

The next step is to get the credentials for the cluster and merge them into `.kube/confg` so that `kubectl` can use them. Use the following command.

```bash
az aks get-credentials --resource-group australia-east --name jhipster-demo
```

You should see output that ends like the following.

```bash
Merged "jhipster-demo" as current context in /home/andrewcarterhughes/.kube/config
```

You should be able to use `kubectl` to get the node on Azure.

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

```bash
NAME                                STATUS   ROLES   AGE   VERSION
aks-nodepool1-58487107-vmss000000   Ready    agent   12m   v1.22.6

> ```

Reviewer: I see two. Not sure if that's important or not.

```
NAME                                STATUS   ROLES   AGE     VERSION
aks-nodepool1-20282620-vmss000000   Ready    agent   2m27s   v1.22.6
aks-nodepool1-20282620-vmss000001   Ready    agent   2m30s   v1.22.6
```

You can also  list a lot of information about the cluster in JSON format using:

```bash
az aks list --resource-group australia-east
```

#### Configure Kubernetes for Okta OAuth and Cosmos DB

> The Kubernetes files in the `k8s` directory were created with the JHipster Kubernetes sub-generator ([see the docs for info](https://www.jhipster.tech/kubernetes/)). To see how the original project was generated, take a look at [Matt Raible's tutorial](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster). As outlined above, these files were modified to work with Azure Cosmos DB instead of MongoDB in a Kubernetes pod (which is what the sub-generator assumes).

Reviewer: We should use a better description for "Matt Raible's tutorial". Maybe "Matt Raible's JHipster and Kubernetes tutorial"?

Configure Spring OAuth in the Kubernetes pod by updating `k8s/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`. You can use the same values you used above in the Docker Compose section, in `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml`.

Make sure you use the encrypted client secret enclosed in quotes with the `{cipher}` prefix. You're going to copy both the encryption key and the encrypted client secret from the Docker Compose configuration to avoid having to re-encrypt the client secret with a new key.

```
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>

>                 client-secret: "{cipher}<encrypted-client-secret>"

Reviewer: This doesn't match the start tag - there's no `{cipher}` in this file. Not a big deal, but we might want to match them match too.

```

To configure the JHipster Registry to use OIDC for authentication, you have to modify `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` to enable the `oauth2` profile. This has already been done for you in the example app in the project Git repository.

```
- name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
  value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

Also in `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml`, update the `ENCRYPT_KEY` value to use the same encryption key you used above in the Docker Compose section in the `.env` file.

```bash
- name: ENCRYPT_KEY
  value: <your-encryption-key>
```

To configure the `store` service to use the Cosmo database, you need to put your connection string in `k8s/store-k8s/store-deployment.yml`.

```bash
- name: SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI

>   value: "<your-connection-string>"

Reviewer: The start tag has `<your-connect-string>`

```

> Both the encryption key and the database connection string are sensitive values that need to be encrypted. You'll see how to do that just a little later in the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the encryption key and the database connection string are sensitive values that need to be encrypted. You'll see how to do that just a little later in this tutorial.
```

#### Build Docker Images and Push to Docker Hub

> Previously you built the docker images, but you left them in the local repository. You need to upload them to Docker Hub so that Azure AKS can find them. In each of the three directories (`blog`, `store`, and `gateway`), run the following command. Save your docker repo name in a Bash variable as shown below and you can copy and paste the commands and run them in each service directory.

Reviewer: Should we mention how to sign up for a Docker Hub account if you don't have one? At the very least, maybe link to https://hub.docker.com/.

```bash
DOCKER_REPO_NAME=<docker-repo-name>
# in blog
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/blog
# in store
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/store
# in gateway
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=$DOCKER_REPO_NAME/gateway
```

> To briefly explain what's happening here, take a look at the blog service Kubernetes descriptor file. It defines a container named `blog-app` that uses the docker image `andrewcarterhughes/blog`, which is my docker repository name and the blog image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To briefly explain what's happening here, take a look at the blog service's Kubernetes descriptor file. It defines a container named `blog-app` that uses the docker image `andrewcarterhughes/blog`, which is my docker repository name and the blog image.
```

`k8s/blog-k8s/blog-deployment.yml`

```yml
containers:
  - name: blog-app
    image: andrewcarterhughes/blog

> ```

Reviewer: I think you're missing a sentence here that tells the reader to change the image to use the $DOCKER_REPO_NAME they used in the previous step. Otherwise, `./kubectl-apply.sh -f` will pull your images.

#### Deploy the Microservice to Azure AKS

You can manage a Kubernetes service purely with `kubectl`. However, there are some pretty helpful tools for monitoring and logging. Both [k9s](https://github.com/derailed/k9s) and [Kubernetes Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) are great. I recommend installing one or both of these and using them to inspect and monitor your Kubernetes services. They are especially helpful when things go wrong (not that things ever go wrong, I wouldn't know anything about that, I just heard about it from friends, I swear). Kubernetes Lens is a full-on desktop app that describes itself as a Kubernetes IDE. In comparison, k9s is a lighter-weight, text-based tool. 

Open a Bash shell and navigate to the `k8s` subdirectory of the project.

> Run the microservice with: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy your microservice architecture to Azure with: 
```

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

If you open this file, you'll see that it creates the namespace and applies the project files. If you do this manually, it's important that the namespace is created first and that the registry is run before the other services.

```bash
...
suffix=k8s
kubectl apply -f namespace.yml
kubectl apply -f registry-${suffix}/
kubectl apply -f blog-${suffix}/
kubectl apply -f gateway-${suffix}/
kubectl apply -f store-${suffix}/
...
```

> You can check on your pods with the following command. Everything was up and running almost immediately for me on AKS.

Reviewer: I don't know if 3m is _almost immediately_. 😜

Here's what I saw:

```
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
blog-77965d99f6-qr6bs                 0/1     Running   0          94s
blog-neo4j-0                          1/1     Running   0          92s
gateway-5c95c95fdf-9dcgp              0/1     Running   0          89s
gateway-postgresql-647476b4d5-h5j5v   1/1     Running   0          87s
jhipster-registry-0                   1/1     Running   0          96s
jhipster-registry-1                   1/1     Running   0          83s
store-7778fcfc59-x2xxd                1/1     Running   0          84s
```

Author: Mine was faster than that. But I was on the upgraded plan.

blog-neo4j-0                          1/1     Running   0          3m48s
gateway-7f6d57765f-2fhfb              1/1     Running   0          3m46s
gateway-postgresql-647476b4d5-jdp5c   1/1     Running   0          3m44s
jhipster-registry-0                   1/1     Running   0          3m52s
jhipster-registry-1                   1/1     Running   0          3m39s
store-7889695569-k4wkv                1/1     Running   0          3m41s
```

Here's an example of what this looks like with Kubernetes Lens (the containers were still booting).

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/lens-booting.png alt:"K8s Lens screenshot" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Another useful command is `describe`. I won't replicate the output here, but if you want more detailed information for debugging, you can also run the following.

```bash
kubectl describe pods -n demo
```

To tail logs, you can use the name of the pod.

```
kubectl logs <pod-name> --tail=-1 -n demo
```

Although, like I said, k9s and Lens are really the way to go for more detailed inspection.

Here's a screenshot from k9s. You can dig down into the different pods to get more detailed information and inspect logs.

> {% img blog/jhipster-k8s-azure/k9s-screenshot.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: These last couple of screenshots are hard to read. I don't know if it's possible to bump the fonts and reshoot them. If not, no worries.

You can use port-forwarding to see the JHipster Registry.

```
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

> Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8761`. You will be redirected to the Okta login screen, after which you will be taken to the registry.

Reviewer: I was logged right in because I used the same browser as before, so that's an option. I also noticed that "Store" is down and this uses a newer version of the registry (7.3.0) vs locally it was 6.7.1.

<img width="1262" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-27 at 13 29 17" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/165605319-b38f202e-6ea0-4ed3-bd56-3f9cb9ab32cf.png">

I did tail the logs of the store and it looks like it started OK.

Make sure everything is green. If you have an error, check the logs for the pod that caused the error. You can restart a specific deployment by deleting it and re-applying it. For example, to restart the store, you can use the commands below from the `k8s` directory. I found that I sometimes had to delete and restart the store to get it to work.

```bash
kubectl delete -f store-k8s/
kubectl apply -f store-k8s/

> ```

Reviewer: I tried this and it seems to work when I tail the logs:

```
2022-04-27 19:34:00.381  INFO 1 --- [nfoReplicator-0] com.netflix.discovery.DiscoveryClient    : Saw local status 
change event StatusChangeEvent [timestamp=1651088040381, current=UP, previous=OUT_OF_SERVICE]
```

It does seem strange that two registries are running:

```
jhipster-registry-0                   1/1     Running   0          13m
jhipster-registry-1                   1/1     Running   0          13m
```

Reviewer: I tried it a 2nd time and got this when using `kubectl get pods`:

```
Unable to connect to the server: dial tcp: lookup jhipster-d-australia-east-4feccc-d4ba1bf5.hcp.australiaeast.azmk8s.io on 1.1.1.1:53: server misbehaving
```

The command worked when I tried again, but the store still isn't available.

Author: I ended up having to upgrade to the pay-as-you-go plan because my credits had expired (after 30 days). I wonder if this is because of resource throttling on the free tier?

Author: I'm not sure why there are two registries. I wondered that. I don't think I changed that. I'll make it one.

Once all is good, `control-c` to stop forwarding the registry. Expose the gateway and open it. 

```
kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

Go to `http://localhost:8080`. 

Authenticate with Okta. Make sure you can add blogs, posts, tags, and products. Because the store service uses the same Cosmos DB instance that you were using with Docker Compose locally, any test products you created earlier will still be there.

In preparation for the next step. delete everything you just deployed to AKS in the `demo` namespace.

```bash

> kubectl delete all --all -n demo

Reviewer: This seems to have worked but I have to admin that `all --all` looks kinda funny.

The first thing you need to do is install `kubeseal` into the AKS cluster. You can take a look at [the `kubeseal` GitHub page](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets) for more info.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets/releases/download/v0.17.5/controller.yaml
```

Retrieve the certificate keypair that this controller generates.

```
kubectl get secret -n kube-system -l sealedsecrets.bitnami.com/sealed-secrets-key -o yaml
```

Copy the raw value of `tls.crt` and decode it. You can use the command line, or learn more about [base64 encoding/decoding](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/clientcreds/main/#base64-encode-the-client-id-and-client-secret) in our documentation.

```
echo -n <paste-value-here> | base64 --decode
```

Put the raw value in a `tls.crt` file.

> Next, install Kubeseal. On macOS, you can use Homebrew. For other platforms, see [the release notes](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets/releases/tag/v0.16.0).

Reviewer: Should this match the above URL? `v0.17.5`

```
kubeseal --cert tls.crt --format=yaml -n demo < secrets.yml > sealed-secrets.yml
```

Remove the original secrets file and deploy your sealed secrets.

```
rm secrets.yml
kubectl apply -n demo -f sealed-secrets.yml && kubectl get -n demo sealedsecret project-secrets
```

You need to update the `yml` files to refer to the encrypted values. Add the following env variable to the `jhister-registry` container in `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` (if an `ENCRYPT_KEY` already exists, replace it).

```yml
env:
...
  - name: ENCRYPT_KEY
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        name: project-secrets
        key: ENCRYPT_KEY
```

In `k8s/store-k8s/store-deployment.yml`, change the `SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI` env variable to use the sealed secret.

```yaml
env:
...
- name: SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI
  valueFrom:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: project-secrets
      key: SPRING_DATA_MONGODB_URI
```

Deploy the cluster.

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Give the cluster a bit to start. Check it with one of the tools I mentioned or the following:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n demo
```

Once everything is ready, port forward the registry to check the services.

```bash

> kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761

Reviewer: Now the store works! Alls wells that ends well?
